-----------------------------------------------------
Notes from Learn SQL in code academy

Date: 2016-05-05

-----------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction

SQL, 'Structured Query Language', is a programming language designed to manage 
data stored in relational databases. SQL operates through simple, declarative 
statements. This keeps data accurate and secure, and helps maintain the 
integrity of databases, regardless of size.

The SQL language is widely used today across web frameworks and database 
applications. Knowing SQL gives you the freedom to explore your data, and the 
power to make better decisions. By learning SQL, you will also learn concepts 
that apply to nearly every data storage system.

The statements covered in this course, use SQLite Relational Database Management 
System (RDBMS). You can learn more about RDBMS's here. 

2. Relational Database

Nice work. In one line of code, you returned information from a relational 
database. We'll take a look at what this code means soon, for now let's focus on 
what relational databases are and how they are organized.

	* A relational database is a database that organizes information into one or 
	more tables. Here the relational database contains one table. 

	* A table is a collection of data organized into rows and columns. Tables 
	are sometimes referred to as relations. Here the table is celebs.
 
	* A column is a set of data values of a particular type. Here id, name, and 
	age are each columns. 

	* A row is a single record in a table. The first row in the celebs table 
	has:

3. Statements

```
CREATE TABLE table_name (
    column_1 data_type, 
    column_2 data_type, 
    column_3 data_type
  );
```

The above code is a SQL statement. A statement is text that the database 
recognizes as a valid command. Statements always end in a semi-colon ;.

4. to be continued










